In the Name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate

THE MUQADDIMAH

An Introduction to History

by Ibn Khaldun

It should be known that history is a discipline that has a great number of approaches. Its useful aspects are very many. Its goal is distinguished.

History makes us acquainted with the conditions of past nations as they are reflected in their national character. It makes us acquainted with the biographies of the prophets and with the dynasties and policies of rulers. Whoever so desires may thus achieve the useful result of being able to imitate historical examples in religious and worldly matters.

The (writing of history) requires numerous sources and greatly varied knowledge. It also requires a good speculative mind and thoroughness. (Possession of these two qualities) leads the historian to the truth and keeps him from slips and errors. If he trusts historical information in its plain transmitted form and has no clear knowledge of the principles resulting from custom, the fundamental facts of politics, the nature of civilization, or the conditions governing human social organization, and if, furthermore, he does not evaluate remote or ancient material through comparison with near or contemporary material, he often cannot avoid stumbling and slipping and deviating from the path of truth.

Historians, Qur'an commentators and leading transmitters have committed frequent errors in the stories and events they reported. They accepted them in the plain transmitted form, without regard for its value. They did not check them with the principles underlying such historical situations, nor did they compare them with similar material. Also, they did not probe into them with their intelligent minds, nor did they understand (the peculiarities of) conditions. All this caused them to stray from the truth.

We, on our part, shall attempt to give an explanation of what is known about conditions of nations and races. We shall deal with the circumstances that influence their character, on which their different forms of civilization are based.

The subject of government, dynasties, and their rise is a vast one, and its goal is remote. But the intelligent reader will find the fullness of information and the great usefulness (of the Muqaddimah) rewarding. He will not find any other work on this subject, so far as we know.

Man is distinguished from other living beings by certain qualities peculiar to him. The sciences of logic, natural sciences, mathematics, and metaphysics explain these distinctive qualities.

God gave man the ability to think. Through the intellect, man comprehends both the sciences and the crafts. The intellectual sciences have their special place in civilization. When civilization has reached its highest level, then these sciences appear and are cultivated on a large scale.

It should be known that differences of condition among people are the result of the different ways in which they make their living. Social organization enables them to cooperate toward that end and to start with the simple necessities of life, before they get to conveniences and luxuries.

Some people adopt agriculture, in the temperate zones, as their way of making a living. They settle on the land. Others adopt animal husbandry in the waste regions. These people move about following their herds in search of pasturage.

The condition of Bedouins is prior to, and the basis of, the condition of sedentary people. The Bedouin is prior to the sedentary person in time. This is because Bedouin civilization is the original condition, and sedentary civilization develops from it.

Thus, Bedouins are closer to being good than sedentary people. The reason for this is that sedentary people have been affected by many vices brought into being by civilization, such as artificiality, falsity, and the propensity to lying. These vices are far removed from the Bedouin character.

Sedentary people possess more good qualities than Bedouins. For instance, there are various kinds of learning, science, and the crafts, all of which are found only in sedentary civilization. But in the long run, the sedentary people fall away from the good qualities and lapse into evil.

The goal of civilization is sedentary culture and luxury. When civilization reaches that goal, it turns toward corruption and starts being senile. It reaches its old age. However, at the same time, another Bedouin civilization rises to take its place.

Royal authority is a goal of group feeling. This is because, as we have established before, group feeling gives protection and makes mutual cooperation possible. It is the great determining element in any race or family.

Group feeling results in royal authority, and royal authority, in turn, is the necessary consequence of group feeling. Royal authority is a noble institution, protecting people from injuries. The restraining influence of royal authority keeps men from mutual aggression. The chief of a tribe needs group feeling to preserve royal authority in his family.

When royal authority is firmly established, the ruler restricts personal followers and guards to a minimum. The ruler becomes convinced of his being alone. But he has forgotten that he achieved royal authority only through his group and his clan.

Luxurious living causes the dynasty to age. Power resides in luxurious living, and when luxury begins, the dynasty begins to disintegrate. The soul exists in potentiality. It is brought into actuality by the training of scholars and by education. Thus we obtain the habit of scientific knowledge and of scientific thinking.

The sciences are many. Philosophy has four subdivisions: logic, physics, metaphysics, and mathematics. Mathematics has four sciences, namely, geometry, arithmetic, music, and astronomy. The crafts also are numerous, such as carpentry, tailoring, weaving, horsemanship, agriculture, and so on.

It has been shown that sedentary culture is the goal of Bedouin life. Through sedentary culture, the crafts, the sciences, and all the other things that human intelligence produces are perfected. This is achieved through research and speculation. Royal authority is the goal of group feeling. When royal authority is obtained, the tribe's group feeling tends to relax.

The dynasty has reached its limit when luxury pervades it. Luxury will lead to corruption. The characteristics of luxury are manifold, and there are many kinds of evil resulting from it. People become dependent on the dynasty for their affairs. They become too lazy to defend themselves. They expect the dynasty to defend them. This is the beginning of the dynasty's weakness.

Towns and cities are secondary to Bedouin life, as we have stated. The reason for this is that the Bedouin life is necessary and natural. Without Bedouins, cities could not exist. Bedouins, by their nature, are not familiar with laws to keep order. They know only the respect they owe their leader through group feeling, and they know only the natural rules of succession.

Man is a social being by nature. Therefore, he needs someone to exercise a restraining influence and keep him from doing harm. Such a person must have superiority over the others in the matter of group feeling. The power needed for social organization requires superiority in group feeling.

The world of the things that come into being and pass away is the world of sensual perception. Above it, there is a spiritual world. The real existence of that spiritual world is explained in philosophy and established with the help of logical proofs.

The things that come into being and pass away have perpetual recurrence. Civilizations pass away and are followed by new ones. Dynasties reach their ends and are replaced by new ones. It is a continuous circle with no end.

History is information about human social organization, which itself is civilization. The explanation of the conditions that affect the essence of civilization is the real object of history. The causes of events are studied in this science.

The sciences are firmly rooted in sedentary civilization. While the dynasty is first established, the inhabitants of the dynasties are busy fighting and gaining victory over their enemies. They are in a state of Bedouin life, immersed in the desert attitude. They are far from the crafts and the sciences.

When the dynasty becomes well established and their power firmly rooted, the ruling class has leisure. Then, they turn to the sciences and the crafts. They want to learn them. They acquire the habit of scientific instruction and develop an interest in the various kinds of sciences.

God created all things and subjected them to the power of man. It is man's destiny to be subject to royal authority, yet royal authority can lead to abuse of power. There must be moderation in everything. If there is moderation, civilization flourishes and develops properly.

Civilization requires labor and thought. People must cooperate with each other to gain the necessities of life. Without cooperation, man cannot obtain his basic requirements. Therefore, social organization is necessary for human beings.

End of selection from the Muqaddimah.
